Let's look at how to calculate CAC and LTV
using a simple example company, The Good Company.
The Good Company have 5000 users in June and 2000 of those customers were new.
The marketing costs for June were $2000 and the cost to upgrade
and maintain the landing page and free trial of The Good Company product was $3000.
To calculate the customer acquisition costs,
we would need to add up all expenses associated with acquiring
new customers and divide that total by the number of new customers achieved.
In June, The Good Company spent $2000 on marketing and
$3000 on maintaining their free trial site, so $5000 total.
They recruited 2000 new customers in that time.
So the customer acquisition cost would be 5000 divided by 2000 or $2.50 a customer.
To calculate the lifetime value that can be expected,
let's look at the transactions and revenue
the company reported in the first half of the year.
From January to May,
The Good Company had 3000 customers.
The average spending by a customer was $50 per
transaction and the average number of purchases was one per month.
Finally, The Good Company knows that a customer uses
and pays for the product for about six months on average.
To calculate LTV, we multiply average spending
per user in a month by the retention time period in months.
We know that the average spending by users in one month can be
calculated by multiplying the average spending per transaction, $50,
by the average number of transactions in a time period,
1 for one month,
then multiply by the average retention period,
6 for six months.
This calculation gives us a lifetime value for the average good company customer of $300.
Any given customer might prove to have a higher or lower lifetime value,
but the average customer will produce $300 in
revenue for The Good Company during their product use lifetime.
Revenue is the fourth step in the pirate metrics framework.
Technically, this step might come before retention in some business models,
but a business's revenue and profit can only be fully understood
if the entire picture of the average customer journey is taken into account.
So revenue comes near the end of the pirate metrics framework.
As I mentioned earlier, referral,
the final step in the pirate metrics is important because referrals from customers can
create a powerful acquisition stream that helps
a product grow without need for additional marketing.
Referral success is typically measured by
referral specific features such as invites sent from users to potential new users.
When we cover instrumenting and collecting feature level data,
you will have a chance to explore referral features as part of an exercise.